- [Instructor] Now that we have set up
both the controllers to log in and the user profile
for the session attributes,
let's grab the profile jsp.
That's something that we have to add in our jsp folder.
So I'm going to go back to your chapter seven resources,
and that is already provided to you
and that chapter folder.
Let's copy that.
And paste it on the jsp folder.
Right, so we have the view ready with us.
The profile controller is also ready with us.
And the last step of this is
to forward the control to UserProfileController
from the LoginController.
So the flow that we have is like this:
the user will submit the login form,
we will enter the LoginController.
The LoginController is going to
store the session attributes,
and from here, we are going to move the control
to the UserProfileController.
Now that can be done with a concept of forwarding,
which is basically borrowed
from the servlets jsp api.
If you want to transfer the control offer request
to another resource inside the same context,
which is your web application,
then you can employ the concept of forwarding.
And how do you do the forwarding in case of springmvc?
Very simple, on line 27,
instead of returning the search view on line 27,
let's just eliminate this and return something else.
And the something else is going to look like this.
You're saying forward,
you have to use the keyword of forward,
and where do you want to go?
You want to go to the UserProfileController.
So let's grab the URL pattern from that controller.
Let's go there.
It's there on line 12.
Copy that.
Come back to LoginController and then embed that here.
So what we've done is we have forwarded the control
from this login, to user profile,
which means it'll now enter the UserProfileController,
getUserProfile method.
On line 13, I'm just going to quickly
correct this method name.
It should be getUserProfile, not getsUserProfile.
Okay, we're good.
So now let's just build this,
and observe what happens.
Let's add a few quick sysouts,
so that we will be able to track the information,
and let's do the build again.
So I'm just going to stop this.
Let's come inside UserProfileController
and now that we have retrieved
the session attribute of login,
it is going to be bound to the login model.
Let's also make sure that we get the information.
So I'm going to go to sysout, saying, username
from session object.
So, let's call the getUsername
method of the login bean.
Yeah.
So this is one thing,
and once we get the username information,
the next part is to display that username
on the profile jsp.
So now I'm going to open the profile jsp, let's go there.
Of course it's a simple HTML file that you have,
so what we could do is,
we could add that username somewhere on this page,
and let's see where we could possibly
add it.
Okay
so under the
let's say the section,
you can add it in any section, basically,
it's up to the design of this UI that you wish to have.
You can add it as per to where your convenience is.
After the h1 class headline,
let's just add that here.
So I'm going to put that into an em tag,
and what I'm going to say is, "Welcome, comma,"
and let's access that username here.
Now understand one thing.
We are supposed to access that
using spring expression language, yes,
but that username is from the session scope.
So let's go back to the UserProfileController
to ensure that we understand what we're doing.
We got the information from the login bean,
and that login bean was retrieved from the session.
So additionally, I could also do one more thing here.
I could say model.addAttribute,
and then I could say username,
and fetch it from the session, and put it in the model
as an attribute.
You can do that as well.
So you can, actually, now access this key on your jsp
directly.
If, however, you do not want to
store this in model attribute,
then you can also access this in this fashion.
Session scope is an implicit object
in the expression language of jsp and it holds true
even when you come to the springmvc jsp pages.
So you can access it like that, too.
Now since I've already added it in the model,
I'm going to access it only using
expression language ones, spring jsp.
So there we go, we have embedded the username
on the profile jsp, so
the flow will execute like this:
it will come to login,
it will be forwarded to profile,
it will retrieve the session information,
set it to model,
and then return to profile.
So now I think we're okay to build this.
Let's go ahead and do that.
Okay, the build has gone well.
Let's go ahead and execute this flow.
Let's go to the home page first.
Login.
I'm going to do a successful login this time.
There we go.
So we have welcome, and admin.
So let's go back to the IDE,
and if you see, for all the requests that we invoked,
the interceptor definitely got called.
And we came to the LoginController,
we went to the UserProfileController,
and we were successfully able to retrieve the information
from the session.
So session attributes helped us store,
session attribute helped us retrieve.
And finally, the post handle
of the interceptor was called, too,
so that the post processing can happen.
So this is that basic flow that we were trying to implement
with the Interceptors Demo.
So if you want to recap that, let's go there.
We have done this entire stuff now.
We had an interceptor plugged in.
We had a login controller.
We forwarded from login to the profile controller,
and finally to the jsp.
Now if you look on your page,
we have just tried to print the username.
If you wish, you can definitely go ahead
and make a call to user repository
to get all the user information and then display that
on your jsp, in a table, or in a div container,
whatever suits.
So you can also do that,
because this method was primarily designed
to get the user profile information from the database.
Of course it did read the username from this session,
and the rest of the information can be pulled from the db.
So you can do this.
Additionally, we also saw another annotation
on one of our slides in the previous demos
by the name at request attribute.
That also will work in a similar fashion,
so if you have any request attributes that you have set
elsewhere in LoginController,
then you can retrieve them using this annotation,
requestAttribute, give it a name,
and then you can bind it to whatever type you want
and retrieve that in your controller.
So it can be done very simply by just plugging in
those annotations on your method signature arguments.
It is that simple to set up everything.
So let's go ahead and delete this,
we don't have that attribute right now in our flow.
We just have session attributes.
So that's all.
We have completed the basic interceptor's flow.
We have also used the concept of forwarding.
If you recap from the LoginController,
we forwarded the control to another controller
inside the same application.
So we have exposed that concept also.